In the last lecture we've learned how to configure our database connection to the my sequel database.
And we've also learned were all the credentials for the database and all the connection parameters are
stored and that that they are stored in environment variables.
And for the local development environment we use a file called Dot and to keep the values of those environment
variables.
And of course this is not only for the databases it's for the whole of our application.
Now you can see that we have some values set for the database the user name and password.
And we do not know if they are correct.
And if you are using some they want to be correct.
So to find out what are the credentials for example you should go to the some folder find some files
and locate that peach.
Be my admin.
So Mike this might differ on Windows.
You just need to find the speech.
Be my admin folder and inside it there is that config in peach bee file so open it.
And around the line 13 you shouldn't you should see the user and password so user name is Root password
is empty.
So let's modify the user name to route remove the password.
So now it is empty and if you remember we created a database called La rather so it's not homestead
it is lava.
So now our connections should be configured properly and the rest of the parameters stays the same.
The host is as you see on the screen and the port the typical my sequel port free free 0 6 now that
we have our database connection configured.
It's time to talk about the concept of migrations.
So migrations lets you keep your database schema version.
What that means is that whenever you would like to change your database schema like Daniel table or
a field or change something you will put that into a migration file and migrations can be found inside
the database migrations folder so Lavell comes with to migration files out of the box and let's take
a look at the one of them so you can see that the migration file contains a class which describes what's
this migration is doing and studied extends the base migration class from LA Bravo.
And it has two methods the up method and down method.
So what that does is whenever we change something inside our database schema we are calling the up method
or basically the la la travel is calling this method.
It means like when we are moving forward we create some things we would like to change some things or
add a new table the app is being called but sometimes we might make a mistake and we want to revert
that change.
And this is what down method is doing so without going into much details right now what this code is
doing.
You might see that there is a call to create on schema which creates a table with some specific fields
and the down method drops this table.
So this is how it works.
The app is always called when you move forward you will create something you modified something and
if you want to reverse this change that down is called.
So you should typically implement those two methods in your migrations now let's take a look at this
migration that comes with Lara travel which tries to create a new users table so to run this migration
you need to open the terminal and let's run peach artisan to see the list of available comments.
So at the top you should see them migrate.
So I'm selecting it now.
Then my grid will run older my database migrations that haven't been run yet and it will call the up
functions of those migration files so we'll modify our database schema forward.
There is another.
Another comment from the migrate namespace and it is called a rollback.
And as you can see it will roll back the last database migration.
So any last change that we've made we can roll back using this command.
For example if you see that you that you actually made a mistake.
So let's run it now.
Peach P artisan migrate and you can see that we have an error and it is in the migration file provided
by LA travel so you can see from the status that we have output at here that it is trying to migrate
using this create user stable and that there is a syntax error or access violation that specified Key
was too long and the maximum key length is seven six seven and it is happening on the user stable on
the unique constraint for the email.
So let's locate it now and that's this line.
So we are adding an email field and making it unique.
But what you have to know is that when we are using the UTF 8 character said in my sequel.
Each character holds free bytes so free bytes multiplied by two hundred fifty five which is the default
length of a string field which gives less than 7 6 7 but we are not using the UTF 8 and coding instead
as we see inside our database config and also as we created the database we are using that UTF 8 and
before which means we are using four bytes for every character and if we multiply two hundred fifty
five the default length of the virtual field which is being used for the email we will actually get
more than this so we'll exceed this limit for a key so to quickly fixed this.
And also remember it for the future you should set the length of such fields to be the maximum of hundred
ninety one so let's take a look if the other migration file might have the same problem and it does
because it's also defining an email field when it is creating the new password resets table and also
using the default length which is two hundred fifty five.
So let's change it 291 because it's also creating an index of on that field.
Now let's go back to the browser and you can see that a lot of the database already has two tables and
it's because those tables were created by dos immigrations but they failed to ring it and they failed
to add are constraints or keys that they wanted to add so they are incorrect not in sync with what we
have inside the migration files.
So let's choose the drop option after selecting those two tables and confirm with yes to delete those
tables manually.
And now let's go back to our terminal and again run peach bee artisan migrate and now you see that all
the migrations have run successfully.
So let's take a look at what we have right now inside the database so you can see free tables the two
tables that we wanted to create or the larva by default create migrations for and the migrations table.
So the migration stable will hold every migration that was executed.
So it contains their migration name and the outer generated ideas.
And also there are their tables the user stable which has all the fields that were defined.
You can also see that the var chart is 191.
As we define it and by default when you haven't specified the length it is two hundred fifty five and
the same is with the password resets table that lava provided.
So that would be about migrations in this lecture.
Let's move to the next one when we will actually create our first on migration.